# Approximating-Irrational-Numbers-and-Points
Abstract: This research focuses on examining how closely we can approximate any quadratic irrational number, α, whose characteristic equation is Aα² + Bα + C = 0, where A, B, C ∈ ℤ. The number α can be approximated by the convergents (pₙ)/(qₙ) from the continued fraction expansion of α. If α is purely periodic, we show that A(pₙ²)/(qₙ²) + B(pₙ)/(qₙ) + C = c/(qₙ²). We also examine how closely we can approximate any quadratic irrational point (α, β) on the unit circle. We define the characteristic equation of the point by pα + qβ − r = 0, where p, q, r ∈ ℤ. The point (α, β) can be approximated by ((aₙ)/(cₙ), (bₙ)/(cₙ)), where (aₙ, bₙ, cₙ) are obtained from the Berggren tree. When (α, β) is purely periodic, we show that |paₙ + qbₙ − rcₙ| = q − 1.

I worked closely with Professor Byungchul Cha and research partner Nolan Eichorn to further the previous research called Approximating Irrational Triangles. The project focused mainly on determining for any quadratic irrational number, what is it's 'approximability' aka how well can it approximate it's rational counterpart. Some quadratic irrational numbers approximate well, while other's don't. We then went on to determine the 'approximability' of any quadratic irrational point (x,y), one dimension higher than just a single number. We find both in this project. 

Python was used as a tool to automate long calculations needed to generate examples in order to gain intuition on the approximability. Results were presented at the Joint Mathematical Meetings in Seattle WA, the largest domestic annual math conference. 


